You’ve already learned about empathy maps and personas and how they can help you empathize with the users you’re designing for. Another helpful way to understand your users is to build a user story around their experiences with your product. As a reminder, a user story is a fictional one-sentence story told from the persona’s point of view to inspire and inform design decisions. This is a great opportunity to use your imagination as you create the stories that capture the needs of your users.

User stories should be written in the following format:

A template of a statement framing the WHO, WHAT, and WHY: As a __, I want to __, so that __. A template of a statement framing the WHO, WHAT, and WHY: As a type of user (WHO), I want to action (WHAT), so that benefit (WHY).
As a type of user (who), I want to action (what) so that benefit (why).

Using this format is a clear way to ensure your user story is communicating everything you need to know about the persona. The user stories you create will be very valuable as you start designing your product. User stories can also serve as a “checklist” to make sure you’re addressing and solving the key problems your users might face when engaging with your product. 

The best practice for user stories is to keep them short, impactful, and to the point, with a clear action and benefit.

Practice using this format to create user stories related to the dog walker app you've been learning about.


As a frequent traveler, I want to hire a consistent dog walker so that I can feel comfortable about the safety of my pets while I'm on vacation. 


As a dog owner, I want to trust my dog walker so I can hire them for regular dog walks. 


As a busy executive, I want to trust that dog walkers won't stand me up so I can work worry-free.


As an indecisive student, I want to try many walkers so I can pick one for regular walks. 


As a mother of two, I want to limit the amount of access to my home so I can keep my family safe. 


As a former police officer, I want to track my dog walker so I am comfortable with the safety of my pets.


As a widowed executive, I want to find a permanent dog walker so my pets get the care they deserve.

Keeping these user stories in mind can inform the designs you’ll create. For example, in the dog walker app, users should have the ability to request a date and time for a dog walker, select a specific dog walker, and maybe even read the background checks of dog walkers, since those were all mentioned in our user stories. 

Different users have different needs, so be sure to practice empathy and keep their unique needs in mind when writing user stories. To help you write the most effective user stories, check out this article from Interaction Design Foundation about 
how to write user stories
.

Representing your users
Personas and user stories represent the needs of the users you’re designing for. The more detailed and accurate your personas and user stories are, the better you will be at designing products that meet their needs. Take your time when creating user stories. Remember, as a UX designer, the user always comes first in all of your work, so it's important to understand their points of view.

You’ve learned that a user story is a fictional, one-sentence narrative used to inspire and inform design decisions. Told from a persona’s point of view, it introduces the user, lays out an obstacle, and states the user’s ultimate goal and reasons for that goal.

Like the user personas they’re based on, user stories help teams:

Distill key user characteristics and needs into single characters and succinct stories

Prioritize and unite around clear design goals based on user needs

Take a user-centered approach and make empathetic design decisions

Convince stakeholders by showing how design decisions will help specific types of people

In this review, you will discover user stories based on the business scenario of a hypothetical company, called CoffeeHouse. You will see the CoffeeHouse scenario throughout the course as an opportunity to practice different parts of the UX design process. 


You can find the CoffeeHouse scenario below:

To access the scenario for this course item, click the link below and select USE TEMPLATE. 

Link to scenario: 
CoffeeHouse Business Scenario

OR 

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the scenario directly from the attachment below.


Example user stories
Here are two CoffeeHouse user personas, Anika and Ali, and their user stories:

Anika
User persona

Anika is a marketing intern at a midsized advertising firm. Twice a week, they collect 6–12 coffees from a nearby coffee shop for their team before their morning meeting. But sometimes they find that their order is incomplete or has gotten cold from waiting too long for them to pick it up. They need a way to place an order in advance, track order status, and better plan their arrival for pickup.

User story

As a marketing intern who collects coffee orders for the team, I want to submit and monitor group orders in advance so that I can better manage order accuracy and plan pickup time.

Ali
User persona

Ali is a line cook who lives in a small city and mostly works in the evenings. During the daytime, Ali does an online coding boot camp for 3–4 hours to learn a new employable skill. They usually do the boot camp from local coffee shops, but sometimes they get frustrated at the limited seating. They also worry about losing their table if they get up to place a new coffee or food order. Ali could use the CoffeeHouse app to reserve an in-shop workspace and place their CoffeeHouse order through the app once they’ve arrived. 

User story

As a remote student who spends 3–4 hours a day studying and purchasing products, I want to be able to order without getting up and potentially losing my table so that I can enjoy CoffeeHouse products and continue to work.

These examples meet all the key criteria for effective user stories. Let’s explore those criteria now.

User story template
Each user story follows this classic template:

Diagram of the template for user stories. Who: As a type of user. What: I want to action. Why: so that benefit.
This who-what-why template helps designers craft compelling user stories that concisely express who users are, what they need, and why: 

Who is the “type of user” the product is for.  

What is the “action” the user hopes will happen.

Why is the “benefit” the user wants to achieve from that action.

Notice how each example story neatly fits this template:

Anika
User story template with the type of user, action, and benefit spaces filled in for Anika.
Who: As a marketing intern who collects coffee orders for the team

What: I want to submit and monitor group orders in advance 

Why: So that I can better manage order accuracy and plan pickup time

Ali
User story template with the type of user, action, and benefit spaces filled in for Ali.
Who: As a remote student who spends 3–4 hours a day studying and purchasing products

What: I want to be able to order without getting up and potentially losing my table

Why: So that I can enjoy CoffeeHouse products and continue to work

With these features of a user in view (who, what, and why), designers are better able to make empathetic design decisions that address users’ pain points, appeal to their goals, and meet their needs.


If you want to use this template to craft user stories for your own portfolio project user personas, click the link below and select USE TEMPLATE.

Link to template: 
User story template
.

OR 

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Diverse types of users (Who)
These user stories are also effective because they define users clearly and concisely, including their situations and key characteristics:

Anika is a marketing intern who collects coffee orders for their work team.

Ali is a remote student who spends 3–4 hours a day studying and purchasing products.

Notice also how the stories focus on diverse types of users. 

Here's a refresher on the personas’ information if you need it:

Anika
A junior employee in a busy professional firm who is typically under 23 years of age. 

Several times a week, this customer goes to the CoffeeHouse to pick up an order for themselves and up to twelve coworkers. 

This customer is on a tight schedule and needs to order high-quality CoffeeHouse items in advance and pick them up quickly and efficiently. 

The most common frustration for this type of customer involves the coordination of their pickup. Sometimes a large order is incomplete or incorrect. Other times, the order sits too long and their coffee or hot food items get cold.

Ali
Someone who enjoys hanging out at CoffeeHouse and wants a place outside of their home and workplace where they can be connected and productive. This type of customer varies in age and occupation.

The most common frustrations for this customer involve poor organization at the checkout counter and their inability to find adequate workspace. Waiting in line to place orders and pick up items interrupts their productivity and discourages them from placing an order. It's also important to this customer that they have access to desirable working conditions like a strong Wi-Fi connection and comfortable seating.

Diverse user personas and stories help designers ensure they’re designing accessible products that meet the widest possible range of user needs. They also help designers identify key commonalities between user needs so they can prioritize and unite around the most important ones.

User actions (What)
Next, notice how each example story clearly identifies what the persona hopes will happen, including the pain points they want to avoid. In each story, the what component is an action that will help the persona avoid these pain points and have a better experience: 

Anika’s pain point is having to submit and wait for orders at the coffee shop. The action they want to achieve is the reverse: being able to submit and monitor orders in advance. 

Ali’s pain point is having to get up and potentially lose their table. The action they want to achieve is being able to place an order from their seat.

By defining these actions and their corresponding pain points, the CoffeeHouse designer can better address users’ needs and create a product that avoids frustrating them.

User benefits (Why)
Finally, consider how each story establishes why the user wants the action to happen. For each user, the why goes beyond the desire to avoid pain points: 

Anika wants to better manage order accuracy and plan pickup time when ordering for their team. 

Ali wants to enjoy CoffeeHouse products and continue to work.

Effective UX design addresses users’ pain points while also helping them achieve goals that are meaningful to them. That’s where the why components of user stories come in: By defining the overarching benefits for users, designers can create more meaningful products that are not only convenient and enjoyable but also impactful on a personal level. These benefits also help designers convince stakeholders how specific design decisions will positively impact users.

Review your user stories
We encourage you to create user stories for the user personas in your project portfolio. When you do, consider comparing them to the examples above, and ask yourself these questions. Do they:

Showcase a diverse and representative set of user personas

Define the types of users clearly and concisely, including key situations and characteristics (who)

Establish the action each user hopes will happen, including any relevant pain points they want to avoid (what)

Show the benefit the user will get from the completed action (why)

Key takeaways
In this course and on the job, designing user stories will help you and your teams set goals and understand the problems you’re solving from your user’s perspective. Consider comparing your user stories with the ones in the example.

Accessibility is the design of products, devices, services, or environments for people with disabilities. Designing for accessibility is about considering all users’ journeys, keeping their permanent, temporary, or situational disabilities in mind. By researching how people with disabilities interact with products like yours, you can better understand how to design for them. It’s not possible to accurately guess all the ways that a user might experience your product, which is one reason why including people with disabilities in your research is so important. 

Here are a few considerations for you to take into account when conducting research during the empathize phase of the design process.

Examples of touch-related accessibility limitations ranging from Permanent (one arm), Temporary (arm injury), and Situational (new parent)
Touch: How would you design for users who have use of one arm, either permanently, temporarily, or situationally?

Decide where to place buttons within your design based on several different hand sizes.

Create a feature that allows double taps to avoid accidental icon clicks.

Enable the one-handed keyboard feature and general keyboard compatibility.

Allow button customization for easy access to information that the user finds most important.

Examples of sight related accessibility limitationsRanging from Permanent (blind), Temporary (wears glasses), to Situational (distracted driver)
See: How would you design for users who have limited vision, either permanently, temporarily, or situationally?

Use a larger font to create a reader-friendly design of the app.

Ensure the app and the images have alternate text that can be read by a screen reader.

Detect whether the user is operating a motor vehicle.

Design the app with high contrast colors.

Don’t rely on text color to explain navigation or next steps. For example, don’t use red text alone as an indicator of a warning. Instead, your design should include explicit instructions.

Customizable text
There are some additional web accessibility tools that individuals with dyslexia or other visual processing disabilities may benefit from. One of these ways is customizable text, a feature that allows users to change how text is displayed in order to read the text more easily.  Text customization involves changing everything from the color or font to the size or even the spacing of the text. For example, some fonts may be easier for users to read , so customizing fonts could be a great help. Therefore, customizable text allows more options than simply magnifying the text or zooming in, making the content more adaptable yet maintaining the functionality. 

Examples of hearing related accessibility limitationsRanging from permanent (deaf), temporary (ear infection) to situational (bartender)
Hear: How would you design for users who have limited hearing, either permanently, temporarily, or situationally? 

Don’t rely solely on sounds to provide app updates, like a new message notification. Instead, enable haptics, which are vibrations that engage a user’s sense of touch, and notification lights.

Apply closed captioning to all videos. 

Provide a text messaging system within the app to allow users to communicate through writing.

Examples of speech related accessibility limitationsRanging from permanent (nonverbal), temporary (laryngitis), to situational (non-native speaker)
Speak: How would you design for users who cannot speak, either permanently, temporarily, or situationally? 

Provide written intros, descriptions, and instructions for users, in addition to video-based content.

Provide Real-Time Texting during phone calls with users or with app support.

Arrange alternatives for automated systems that rely on speech recognition.

Provide an in-app messaging system that allows the use of emojis and image uploads.

This list is just a small fraction of the considerations you should take into account when designing for users with disabilities. The best way to learn about how to improve your designs is to conduct research and get feedback from people with disabilities directly.


Learn: How would you design for neurodiverse users, such as those with Dyslexia or Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)? 

Avoid complexity. Keep your designs and navigation as simple, concise, and straightforward as possible. 

Make navigation consistent across your entire website or mobile design.

Use familiar and widely accepted icons and symbols.

Consider pairing text with graphics, images, or even video or audio explanations.

Assistive technologies
Creating a product design that takes every range of ability into account can be incredibly difficult. Thankfully, there are services and apps designed to help bridge the gap. For example, one service that’s recently been added by phone providers is 
Real-Time Texting
, which lets users text during a phone call to improve communication. 

Another feature that helps people with disabilities is alternative text. People who have low vision or are blind often rely on screen readers to read the content on their screens aloud. But, if your informational icons don’t have labels or alternative text, the screen reader can’t describe the functionality of that button to the user. Not every image or icon is informational, so only include descriptions when necessary. 

Researching and learning about assistive technology will help you better understand the impact these technologies have. Here are a few links to help you get started: 

Discussing the value of disability technology: 
Disability Technology
 from TEDx Talks on YouTube

How accessibility in technology changes lives: 
How the Blind Use Technology to See The World
 from TEDx Talks on YouTube

An explanatory guide for phone accessibility: 
Smartphone accessibility: a comprehensive guide
 from Uswitch 

Google’s 
accessibility information hub homepage
 

Putting inclusive design into practice
To put inclusive design into practice, it’s important to immerse yourself in the assistive technology that people with disabilities might use and to have conversations with them about their experiences. The best way to design empathetically for the world around you is to engage with your users and ask them questions about the way your designs could help them succeed.

To learn more about inclusive design, here are some additional resources to get you started:

Describing ways to design products inclusively: 
Inclusive Design: 12 Ways to Design for Everyone
 from Shopify 

Google’s accessible approach to inclusive design: 
An Accessible Process for inclusive Design
 from Google I/O

Breaking down important inclusive design principles: 
6 Principles for Inclusive Design
 from UX Planet

 Terms and definitions for Course 2, Module 2

Curb cut: The slope of the sidewalk that creates a ramp with adjoining street

Curb cut effect: A phenomenon that describes how products and policies designed for people with disabilities often end up helping everyone

Customizable text: A feature that allows users to change how text is displayed in order to read the text more easily

Edge case: What happens when things go wrong that are beyond the user’s control about a type of user

Happy path: A user story with a pleasant ending

User journey: The series of experiences a user has as they achieve a specific goal

User story: A fictional one-sentence story told from the persona’s point of view to inspire and inform design decisions