Hi again. You just
learned about personas, user stories, and user journeys. I'm here to help you learn how to consider accessibility
in each of these. Why do we need to consider
personas, user stories, and user journeys of
someone with a disability? Well, people with disabilities
share the same goal for any given user problem that your design is
trying to solve. Additionally, accessibility
is not just designing to include a group of users
with varying abilities. Instead, it extends to anyone who is
experiencing a permanent, temporary, or
situational disability. Designing with accessibility
in mind means making sure, Betty, a user with
only one arm; Angela, a user with a
sprained wrist; and Juan, a user holding
a colicky newborn, all have everything they need to stay happily on
their user journeys. Betty's disability is permanent,
Angela's is temporary, and Juan's is situational, but they all need to achieve their user goal
with only one hand. You want to design products
that can be used by everyone. As UX designers, we don't
want to leave Betty, Angela, or Juan behind. It's critical to understand
how a person with a disability might have a
slightly different journey due to the fact that
their needs may not have been addressed during
the initial design process. Sometimes not
addressing those needs can have serious consequences. Consider fire safety
escape routes. Usually, people
are advised to use the stairs to exit a
building during a fire. But what about people who use
wheelchairs to get around? They're not considered in those evacuation plans and maps. Accessibility should
matter to all of us. Start familiarizing yourself with the experience that people with a disability might have
when using digital products. It's important to have
conversations with people with disabilities and immerse yourself in the assistive technology
that they might use. Learning more about
assistive technologies, might mean watching videos
of experts using them. There are plenty of videos out there demonstrating just that, or you could even try an
assistive technology yourself. Keyboard interaction models serve as a great starting point for understanding the basic
interaction patterns of ATs. You might generally use a mouse pointer with
your computer and not realize that there are moments when you rely
on a keyboard instead. For example, when you're
filling out a form like this, you might use your
mouse to navigate to a new form field, like name. Then you might press
"Enter" or "Return" on your keyboard to submit the form, instead of clicking
the button with your mouse. Some people rely solely
on the keyboard to interact with websites
at all times. So all websites need to
support keyboard input and navigation to comply with the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act. By doing so, you also
enable other ATs, like switch devices, to properly interact with
the same website. It's impossible to overstate the importance of designing
for accessibility. UX designers empathize with
their potential users, which includes people
with disabilities. Coming up, we'll explore how
designing for accessibility can end up benefiting
everyone too. See you there.