Now that you've
planned and prepared for happy paths and edge cases, let's discover what user
journeys are all about. A user journey is the
series of experiences a user has as they
achieve a specific goal. User journeys built
off the persona's and stories you've
already created. They help you think and
feel like the user, which is super important. If you can't put yourself
in the user's shoes, you can't be sure your design
will really help them. Before you start
the user journey, you need a journey map. A journey map is just
what it sounds like; an illustration of what the user goes through to
achieve their goals. Think of it like reading a book. If the persona is
your character, the user story is your plot, and the journey map is
your story outline. First, let's do a
little experiment. Imagine we want to drive
to the beach for a swim. We can pull up a
map on our phone to get an overview
of the best route. We know our starting
point and our end point. Let's go for a drive. So far, so good. Looks like a traffic
jam up ahead. Luckily, the map app gives us a detour route to
avoid the traffic. Map apps help drivers avoid
obstacles along their route. The same idea applies
to journey maps. A user journey map helps UX designers create obstacle
free paths for users. That's the first benefit
to user journey mapping. Now let's go over some more. A user journey map reduces
the impact of designer bias, which you might remember as the tendency for the designer to design according
to their own needs and wants instead of a user's. Creating a user journey map
lets you thoroughly document the entire sequence
of events and interactions a user experiences, including the user's
interaction with your design. That way you can really focus
on how a specific persona, not you, thinks and feels at
every step of the journey. User journey mapping also
highlights new pain points. For example, say your persona, Kindred, is biracial. Her user journey is spilling
out her census info online. Everything is going well
until it's time for Kindred to select her race
from the drop-down menu. Suddenly she hits a roadblock. There's no option for her to identify herself as
both Black and Asian. That's a big pain point. If you yourself aren't biracial, you might not have
predicted this problem. But by creating the
persona of Kindred, giving her a story
and mapping out her journey using a
user journey map, you're able to clearly
identify the issue she's experiencing and
improve the design. This brings us to the final key benefit of journey mapping. Identify improvement
opportunities. In Kindred's example, you
could add an option in the menu for users to write
in their own racial identity. Or maybe you could
add another field to the drop-down menu for
multi-racial citizens. Improving the UX here can
make a big difference. How do we map out
a user journey? One action at a time. Let's say our persona, Jamal, comes from a town of 500
people in rural Mississippi. He uses a wheelchair
to get around and he's visiting New York
City for the first time. Today. He wants to fulfill
his dream of going all the way to the top of
the Empire State Building. How do we map out his journey? To start, identify
the first task the user needs to complete. In this case, Jamal
needs to find a subway route that will take him to the Empire
State Building. Next, list all the things the user needs to do
to reach their goal. Here's a list of
Jamal's main tasks. Task 1, determine the subway
line and route to take. Task 2, find the nearest station with
wheelchair accessibility. Task 3, buy a ticket. Task 4, find the right
platform and make sure the train is headed toward the Empire State Building
and not away from it. Task 5, board the subway. Task 6, find the right exit. The next action in mapping a
user journey is describing all the smaller
things the user must accomplish before graduating
to the next main task. Here's what that might
look like for Jamal. So that's it. You got Jamal all the way to the
Empire State Building. Your work here is
done. Not exactly. You've completed Jamal's
physical journey, but you still need to consider
his emotional journey too. The third action in mapping a
user journey is identifying the user's likely emotions as
they go from task to task. For example, imagine
how Jamal might feel the first time he looks
at the subway line map. He might be confused and
intimidated or imagine that Jamal's purchased
his ticket and is trying to get to
the right platform. He can't use the stairs, so he'll need to find
an elevator or ramp. The elevator might
not be working, so he has to find a ramp. This experience could
make Jamal feel overwhelmed and make
him feel excluded. There's one final action in
our journey mapping exercise. Once we've identified
the user's emotions, we can then identify opportunities to improve
his user experience. This is where user
journey mapping can really enhance UX design. Without mapping the actions
of Jamal's journey. It might never have
occurred to us to add an accessibility key to the map to help users
with wheelchairs navigate the subway
stations more easily. Here's what a completed
user journey map looks like for Jamal. Now you know how user journey is build off of user
stories and personas, you also know the benefits
of user journey maps, and you understand how
to create a journey map. Jamal's user journey may
have come to an end, but we've still
got a long way to go in our UX design journey