Hey, my name is Ayan, and I am
a visual designer at Google. An edge case is a situation
within a product experience that the product team doesn't think it's
very likely to happen, or that is outside of the typical flow
within that product. When you're trying to figure out what the edge cases
are for your product, you really need to
actually sit down with users and see how their real life actually
shakes out with your product. Often what you think is going to happen when your app is
in the hands of a user, is actually not what happens. Identifying those cases
is really key to creating a harmonious experience when things don't go the way
that you plan for them to. An edge case that I've
worked on semi-recently, I was the visual design lead on the Messages product at Google. It's our texting solution. And as I was creating that brand, differentiating visually
RCS, which is the future of texting, things like typing
indicators, versus SMS, somewhat of the past of texting, the typical protocol
that you would use to text your mom, let’s say. Creating a visual system that
would work harmoniously and these two supposedly
separate experiences make that, on the off case that
your phone loses access, you would still have a
harmonious experience. As a visual designer, I really wanted to make sure that these two spaces, that
we didn't intend to ever live together, still
would make sense if it did. And that actually in practice, that happened quite a bit. When you see screenshots
of our texting app, you'll notice that
whether or not it's an RCS versus SMS or maybe
a combination of the both, it should still look beautiful. As we were working
on this project and really creating a new branch
for the Messages app, I worked really closely with product management
to come up with a strategic plan so that as this redesign lived
out in the wild, so to speak, we had a plan
for the years to come. While RCS was our big
bet for the future, we wanted to make sure
that the SMS reality of that time would be harmonious as our product
matured over the years. Identifying future use cases versus current use cases really helped us identify
these edge cases that would be
prevalent current day, that maybe wouldn't
be so prevalent in our hopeful future. I get so proud when I see screenshots of text
message conversations out there on social media and sometimes you see SMS with RCS, that light blue bubble with that dark blue bubble and
I'm proud to say that we identified that
edge case before it became an issue for
our brand perception.