Welcome back. With user
stories, just like any story, there's always a
chance that things might not go exactly
how you want them. The hero detective doesn't
always crack the case, and your user doesn't
always reach their goal. Luckily for your user, you can change their
experience as a UX designer. When building a new
or improved product, the designer's goal is to keep all users on the happy path. The happy path describes a user story with
a happy ending. For this user,
everything goes as they expect and they reach
their goal without issue. Unfortunately, for other users, things don't go
quite as smoothly. For example, let's say
Iyla, a Londoner, wants to buy
birthday flowers for her friend Priya in California. She visits the website of a California-based flower
shop and gets to work designing a bouquet of Priya's favorite flowers and writing a meaningful message. Everything is going well. Iyla's on the happy path. But when Iyla asked
to enter her address, there's a field that
asks for her home state. Iyla doesn't have a home state, she lives in London, England. She tries to skip that field, assuming the site will let her, but the state field is
required to proceed. She reaches a dead end
on the happy path. After all that work, has to close the
website and find another way to get
flowers for her friend. In the design world
Iyla and others like her are called
edge case users. An edge case is a
rare situation or unexpected problem
that interrupts a standard user experience. Good UX anticipates
edge cases and reroute users back to the happy path when things don't go as planned. In edge cases, the obstacle is often beyond the
user's control to fix. Think back to Iyla
who only wants to wish her friend in
America a happy birthday. There is no way for her
to skip the state field, so there is no way for
Iyla to successfully buy Priya's flowers on
the shop's website. Unfortunately, Iyla's
user experience is unrepairable on her end. Let's check out some UX design
pro tips for spotting and resolving potential edge cases before the product launches, so other users don't end
up in Iyla's situation. Pro tip 1: create personas
and user stories. If UX designers make sure their
personas and user stories account for a wide variety
of users and problems, they can keep even the most vulnerable users
on the happy path. Pro tip 2: thoroughly review
the project before launch. In the rush to launch a product, UX designers might focus
only on the happy path. Giving the project a final good review from
the user's perspective, helps designers
identify edge cases. Pro tip 3: use wireframes. You'll learn how to
create wireframes later. Wireframes help
visualize the project, which makes it
easier to identify potential user pain
points and fix them before launch for folks who
are not visually impaired. We all have that
friend who always has whatever you need
when you need it. For example, if you're
at an amusement park having lunch and dropped
your fork on the floor, this friend's got an
extra fork ready to go. Need an extra pair
of nylon footies to try on some fancy flats? They've got you covered. As a UX designer, you want to be that
friend to all users. You want to be able to anticipate what needs
they might have, whether they're on the
happy path or not. Okay, so far we've gotten to know
our users and their stories. Up next, we'll go on a
journey. The user journey.