Hey, there. Now that we
know all about personas, it's time for some stories. A user story is a fictional
one-sentence story told from a persona's point of view to inspire and inform
design decisions. It introduces the user, lays out an obstacle, and
states their ultimate goal. Don't get confused if you
notice some designers refer to these as
scenarios or user cases, they mean the same thing. Now, let's check out the goal, structure, and benefits
of user stories. The user story expands
on the persona and deepens your understanding
of a user group. Here are some cool things a
user story can do for you. User stories prioritize
design goals. If you have a lot of
user needs to consider, user stories,
determine which ones are the most critical to resolve. User stories also unite the
team around a clear goal. A good user story
can also inspire empathetic design decisions by making our approach
user-centered, also known as user-centric.
And finally, user stories personalize pitches
to stakeholders. You aren't just presenting
your design update ideas. You're demonstrating
how the updates will help specific
types of people. So how do you write a user story? Like a classic short story, user stories have a hero with an ultimate goal and a conflict that keeps them
from conquering that goal. To write a user story, we follow this simple formula. As a type of user, I want to action,
so that benefit. All that's left now is filling
in the missing pieces. Type of user describes
who we are designing for. Action is what the user
hopes will happen. And finally, benefit is why the user wants the
action to happen. This formula keeps the problem user-centered,
actionable, and clear. Let's think about a user story that I experience all the time. As an online shopper, I want to receive a
text when the item arrives so that I can
pick it up right away. So now you know what
a user story is, why it's important, and
how it's structured. Up next, you'll
learn how to predict and prevent a bad
user experience.