Hi again. Want to
hear a fun fact? One of the first curb
cuts in the U.S. was installed in Michigan in 1945. You've probably used
a curb cut yourself. A curb cut is the name
for the slope of the sidewalk that creates a ramp with the adjoining street. Curb cuts are usually
found at intersections. Thanks to curb cuts, people with wheelchairs,
leg braces, or crutches can navigate their neighborhoods with
a lot more freedom. But, funny thing: The benefits of
curb cuts extend to everyone, from people pushing
strollers to bicyclists, movers, and elderly people. Chances are curb cuts
have helped you, too. Curb cuts have become such a
popular example of designing for accessibility that there's now a whole concept
named after it. The curb-cut effect is a
phenomenon that describes how products and policies
designed for people with disabilities often end
up helping everyone. Let's check out some more
examples of this effect. Today, most crosswalks in major cities across
the United States come equipped with signals that indicate that it's safe for
someone to cross the street. There's a visual signal, like a symbol of
a person walking. There's an auditory signal,
like a series of beeps. The auditory signals
even speed up to let people with vision disabilities
know that their time to cross the street safely
is ending. And there's a tactile signal, like the bumpy blister paving
on the sidewalk's curb. The physical sensation
of the tactile paving indicates that they've safely made it to the next sidewalk. But these signals help
everyone. Think about a sighted person who is focused on something other
than the cross-walk, like a new text message, the sequence of beeps and the textured ground
designed to help people with vision disabilities will help the distracted person too. Or consider this: If you've
ever broken your leg, you know how challenging it
can be to do everyday things, like go down a flight of stairs. When you design features
for someone with a permanent limited
mobility, like elevators, power lifts, or wide aisles
to accommodate wheelchairs, you'll end up helping an
even broader range of users. Similarly, if you're a
sighted person who has tried to watch a breaking news
story on TV in a noisy bar, chances are you've been helped
out by closed captioning. You don't have to hear the news anchor as long as
you can read what they're saying. And since closed
captioning is multilingual, users who aren't fluent in
the language being spoken can understand what's being said by reading closed captioning
in their native language. Now, let's think
about products and services that are inaccessible. As a security measure, many websites automatically time a user out if they haven't
been active for two minutes. However, we live
in a world full of neurologically diverse
people who might need more time filling out
a form or reading text. Designing for inclusivity
and accessibility may mean removing or
lengthening this time window. If you do that, you will help people
with neurodiversity, multitasking parents,
senior citizens, and even the folks who need more time to find
their credit cards. All these people would benefit from either removing the timer, extending the amount
of time allowed, or a timer that
prompts users with a visual or sound notification when their time is running low. To wrap up, let's recap
what you've learned. As we consider the experiences of users with disabilities, we discovered how
designing for people with disabilities can
benefit everyone. Coming up, you'll learn how to define a
problem statement.