You’ve explored how to interview and empathize with users, identify their pain points, and create user personas to guide user-centered design decisions. You’ve also explored how to synthesize your empathy work into user stories and user journey maps. User stories and journey maps are important bridges between the empathize phase and the define phase of the Design Thinking process. 

Process flow that represents the Design Thinking frameworkProcess flow that represents the Design Thinking framework: 1. Empathize, 2. Define, 3. Ideate, 4. Prototype, and 5. Test. Define is highlighted.
As designers move into the define phase, they will use their empathy work to answer these key questions: 

Which of my users’ needs or problems are the most important ones for my design to address? 

How might my design address these needs or problems in effective and unique ways that create value for users?

Now you’ll explore how designers build on their user stories and user journey maps to identify specific user problems and hypothesize solutions.

Problem statements
With user stories and user journey maps in front of them, a designer can better identify the user needs their design must address. This is where problem statements come in: A problem statement summarizes who the user is, what they need from a design, and why. Here’s a simple template:

[Name of user persona] is a [type of user] who needs [type of user experience] because [benefits of user experience].

For example, here’s the problem statement that the bakery’s designer created for Berta:

Berta is an older person with a visual impairment. She is a long-time bakery customer who prefers ordering over the phone. She needs a website and online ordering system that are easy to use, adapt to her vision needs, and mimic the feel and flow of a friendly phone conversation. She wants to place her orders with ease and feel like she’s making a personal connection with the bakery.

Hypothesis statements
Hypothesis statements help designers move from defining problems toward ideating solutions. In crafting a hypothesis statement, the designer makes an educated guess about what might be the best solution to the problem they identified in their problem statement. Hypothesis statements can take many forms, but they often follow a classic if/then formula:

If [user] can perform [action], then they will achieve [benefit].

For example, the bakery’s website designer might build on Berta’s problem statement to create a hypothesis like this:

If Berta can place online orders in a simple system that mimics the feel and flow of a friendly phone conversation, she will continue to feel a connection with the bakery.

Value propositions
At their best, value propositions are short, compelling statements about how a designer’s product addresses users’ needs and creates unique value for users. Value propositions can summarize and synthesize the user benefits from multiple hypothesis statements.

To create a value proposition, designers typically answer these key questions:

What does the product do? Here, designers clearly state the key actions the product enables users to perform or the key benefits it enables them to achieve.

Why should the user care? Here, designers emphasize how their product addresses users’ pain points in unique ways that aren’t offered by other products.

In the bakery example we’ve been exploring, the designer might create a value proposition like this one:

The bakery’s new website offers a streamlined online ordering system that mimics the feel and flow of a friendly phone conversation. This system is easy to use and enables the bakery’s customer base to order online while maintaining a valuable feeling of personal connection with the bakery staff.

Key takeaways
In the define phase of Design Thinking, designers build on their empathy work to identify specific user problems and hypothesize possible solutions. These problems and solutions should emerge from a rich understanding of who users are and how they experience the product, including the specific tasks they encounter and the feelings they bring to those tasks. 

By developing concise and compelling problem statements, hypothesis statements, and value propositions, designers are in a better position to start ideating solutions that will actually meet users’ needs. They’re also in a better position to convince stakeholders by showing how their solutions align with real users’ experiences and address real users’ pain points. 

Identifying the problems that users face is one of the most important parts of UX design. But as critical as research is to the UX design process, some of your work will still require a small amount of “mind reading” about the user’s experience. That might seem like it’s contradicting the rule of never making assumptions, but sometimes users just won’t feel comfortable or know how to express exactly what their problem is and how it affects them. In this reading, you’ll learn how to define unspoken pain points and use them to form strong problem statements.

The connection between pain points and problem statements
As a reminder, pain points are any UX issue or friction that frustrates the user and blocks them from getting what they need. Minimizing pain points keeps users happy and encourages them to keep interacting with the product. So, how do UX designers find and define pain points? 

Think about the dog walker app and one of our user personas, Arnold. Arnold is in his late fifties, and his kids have encouraged him to upgrade to a smartphone. Arnold is a leader at his company, and not used to admitting he's uncomfortable with technology. After his wife died, Arnold became the primary caregiver of the family's animals. But, he works over sixty hours per week, and is unable to take his three dogs on twice-daily walks. Arnold is turning to the dog walker app for help. 

Image of a person playing feeding their 3 dogsUnderneath graphic, text reads: Arnold Jones. Age: 58. Education: PhD. Hometown: Boston, Massachusetts. Family: Widowed, four adult kids. Occupation: Pharmaceutical executive.
You learned earlier that there are four categories pain points can fall into: 

Financial, or money-related pain points. 

Product, which are pain points related to quality issues. 

Process, which are pain points related to the user’s journey. 

Support, which are pain points related to getting help from customer service.

Identifying the pain points your user is experiencing will help you find potential problems that your design can solve. Arnold’s pain points fall into the process category. His biggest challenge is that he's not technologically savvy, so he struggles to understand how to use the app.

Now that you’ve identified Arnold’s pain points, you need to be sure you know enough about his needs to write a problem statement. Problem statements provide a clear description of the user’s need that should be addressed. To build a problem statement, you can utilize the 5 Ws framework.

The 5 Ws and H: who, what, when, where, why, and how
The most common framework used to create problem statements is the 5 Ws and H framework. After you define the user’s pain points, you can answer who, what, when, where, why, and how to solve the user’s problem.

shape, circle
Who is experiencing the problem? Knowing your users and their background is key to creating successful solutions for them.

What are the pain points you’re trying to solve? Determining a user’s pain points early allows you to answer the rest of these questions and clarify the context of the pain points.

Where is the user when they’re using the product? A user’s physical context matters to your design.

When does the problem occur? Maybe it’s right after the end of a long and tedious process, or maybe it’s something that happens daily. Knowing when the problem occurs can help you better empathize with the user’s feelings. 

Why is the problem important? Knowing how this problem affects your user’s experience and life will help to clarify the potential consequences.

How are users reaching their goals by using the product? Understanding how users reach their goals allows you to map the user journey that they take through your product.

To design a solution that fits the needs of your users, you have to understand the problem from their point of view. Thinking through the 5 Ws and how forces you to write out who the user is and describe the full context of the problem from the user’s perspective.

Okay, back to the dog walker app! You know a bit about Arnold already, but use the skills you’ve learned so far to confirm you know enough to solve his pain points. 

Who: A busy executive

What: Arnold wants to hire a daily dog walker for his three dogs.

Where: Arnold is likely using the app at work, on the go. 

When: Arnold gets frustrated when he opens the app, starting from the very beginning of the user journey. 

Why: Arnold doesn’t have a lot of experience with phone apps or similar technology. 

How: Arnold wants to go easily from the home screen of the app to the list of dog walkers to the confirmation screen. 

Ta-da! You were able to successfully answer all six questions. Now that you’ve thought through your user’s needs, you’re ready to define the final problem statement. 

The problem statement formula 
So, how do you create a problem statement? Start by defining who the user is and what their needs and motivations are. Here’s the formula we introduced in the video: 

Blank problem statement template[user name] is a/an [user characteristics]  who needs [user need] because [insight]
Okay, now apply the formula to Arnold. Arnold is a busy professional who needs a dog walker. But what’s the insight? His phone! His kids gave him a shiny, new smartphone. Arnold shared that he often struggles with technology and is having an issue navigating the app. 

Problem statement: ArnoldArnold is a/an busy excutive who needs an easy app experience to hire a dog walker because he's not technologically savvy.
Arnold is a busy executive who needs an easy app experience to hire a dog walker because he's not technologically savvy.

The impact of problem statements 
Problem statements provide clarity about your users’ goals and help UX designers identify constraints that prevent users from meeting those goals. Problem statements also help your team measure success. If you expect that Arnold and users like him will engage the most with your app, you should make the app clear and easy for them to understand. 

The designs you create matter! Empathize with your user as much as you can to make a product that they’ll want to interact with and use every day.

You’ve spent a lot of time learning about the users you're designing for, and how empathy and user research can improve your understanding of users' needs. As a reminder, here's where you're at in the design process:

Empathizing with users allows you to consider the product experience from the users’ perspective. By connecting with people directly, like through interviews, you can discover and understand users' likes, dislikes, and pain points. 

Then, sort through research you collected about users to define the problem they're facing. Creating a problem statement helps you clearly define the user pain points that your future designs can address. 

Now, you can begin coming up with solutions that address those problems! You’re ready to create hypothesis statements. A hypothesis statement is an educated guess about what you think the solution to a design problem might be. You know the challenges users are facing, so it’s time to consider how your designs can alleviate their pain points. 

Hypothesis statements don’t have a single standard formula to follow, but there are two common methods you can try using to write one. 

First, you can use the if / then format to come up with a hypothesis statement. Here are examples of if/then hypothesis statements applied to the users of the dog walker app:

If Arnold downloads the dog walker app, then they can utilize the “simplified” mode setting to view only the basic app functions. 

If Tobias signs up for the dog walker app, then they will quickly and easily pick a walker that fits their schedule.

Second, you can use the we believe format to come up with a hypothesis statement. Here are examples of we believe hypothesis statements applied to the dog walker app:

We believe that a simplified mode of the dog walker app for Arnold will allow them to hire dog walkers efficiently.

We believe that easy access to available dog walkers for Tobias will increase the amount of walks they choose for their pets. 

If / then statements focus directly on the needs of users. On the other hand, we believe statements take the perspective of your team into account, while remaining empathetic to the needs of users.

You might encounter situations where you have multiple hypothesis statements for one problem statement. That’s okay! There will always be multiple solutions for the problems that users are facing. Your job as a UX designer is to use your creativity and problem-solving skills to decide which solutions work best for the unique users you’re designing for.

Hypothesis statements help you narrow down your research insights into goals for your product, so you can stay focused on the wants and needs of your users. 

You’ve learned that problem statements and hypothesis statements help UX designers establish design goals and define deliverables. A problem statement describes a user need that the product must address. A hypothesis statement communicates the designer’s best educated guess about how to address that need. 

A strong problem statement meets these criteria:

Human-centered

Broad enough for creative freedom

Narrow enough to be solved by a practical design solution

A strong hypothesis statement communicates a practical design solution to the need in the problem statement.

Now, you’ll review the templates for problem and hypothesis statements and then explore examples from the CoffeeHouse app scenario you’ve considered in previous course items. 

Problem statement template
A problem statement can be written with this process: 

Start with the name of a user persona

Add a short description of the user’s characteristics 

Clearly describe the user’s need

Explain why the user has that need

The reason for the need (the “why”) should be an actionable insight that the designer can address in their design. 


This process should yield a problem statement that more or less fits this template:

[User name] is a/an [user characteristics] who needs [user need] because [insight].


To access the problem statement template, click the link below and select USE TEMPLATE. 

Link to template: 
Problem statement template

OR 

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Problem statement template with fillable spaces for user name, user characteristics, user need, and insight.
CoffeeHouse problem statement
Here is an example of a problem statement for Anika, one of the CoffeeHouse user personas you’ve met before:

Anika’s problem statement:

Anika is a/an busy marketing intern who needs a faster, more collaborative way to take many coffee orders from co-workers at one time because taking individual orders takes too much time and isn't a good use of Anika's time.

Problem statement template completed with information about user Anika.
This is a well-written problem statement. It will help the design team establish their design goals, understand constraints, define key deliverables, and create benchmarks for success. Consider how the statement supports these outcomes. Working off the statement, designers can clearly articulate:

The goal of developing an app that enables groups to place orders collaboratively and efficiently. 

The short time constraints in which users like Anika need to place collaborative group orders.

The design deliverables they need to achieve that goal, such as a prototype for a collaborative ordering system.

The benchmarks for their design’s success, such as faster ordering and time on task for placing collaborative group orders.

Notice also how this problem statement fits these key criteria. It is:

Human-centered and focused on the needs of a specific type of user.

Broad enough to allow designers creative freedom in envisioning and designing a solution.

Narrow enough to be solved by a practical design solution.

Hypothesis statement template
Based on an effective problem statement, a hypothesis statement can be written with this process: 

Determine an action that could solve your user’s need.

Specify the outcome that you expect from the action.

This process often yields hypothesis statements that more or less fit this if/then template:


If [action], then [outcome].


This template often works, but hypothesis statements don’t need to have a standard form. Sometimes an if/then statement may sound unnatural, so designers may reword their if/then statements to create statements that are more flexible.

Regardless of the form they take, effective hypothesis statements give designers an easy way to communicate their best educated guesses about which actions will best address users’ needs and achieve the outcomes users desire.


To access the hypothesis statement template, click the link below and select USE TEMPLATE. 

Link to template: 
Hypothesis statement template
.

OR 

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


If/then statement template with fillable spaces for action and outcome.
CoffeeHouse hypothesis statement
If/then statement template completed with information about Anika.
Here’s the hypothesis statement that the CoffeeHouse designers created for Anika’s problem statement:

Anika's hypothesis statement: If Anika uses the CoffeeHouse app to collect orders and submit them, then they can get coffee for everyone in the office quickly and easily.

By building on Anika’s problem statement, this hypothesis statement expresses a clear design goal and criteria for success:

Goal: Anika’s goal is to collect and submit group orders. This is the solution the app should enable the user to achieve.

Criteria: Anika wants to get coffee for all their colleagues quickly and efficiently, so their criteria for success are the speed, efficiency, and completeness of their orders. These criteria will help designers determine whether their solution is successful.

A problem and hypothesis pair
You’ve explored a problem statement and hypothesis statement on their own, but the power of these statements lies in how they build on one another. Here’s another CoffeeHouse example with the problem statement and hypothesis statement paired closely together. As you explore them, consider how the hypothesis builds on the problem statement:

Ali problem statement: Ali is a remote student who needs to place and receive orders without leaving their table because if they get up to order, someone else might sit at the table and they will lose their spot.

Problem statement template completed with information about Ali.
Ali hypothesis statement: If Ali uses the CoffeeHouse app to place an in-store order from their table, then an employee can deliver their order so Ali won't lose the table.

If/then statement template completed with information about Ali.
Notice how the problem and hypothesis statements perfectly mirror each other. Ali’s situation, problem, and pain points all focus on Ali wanting to place orders while also keeping their spot in the coffee shop. And the designer’s hypothesis succinctly predicts how the app will address that problem and those pain points in the context of Ali’s situation.

Review your problem and hypothesis statements
When you create problem and hypothesis statements for your portfolio projects, use the examples and criteria above to guide and assess your work. As you review your work and iterate, ask yourself these questions:

Have you constructed a problem statement that is:

Human-centered and focused on the needs of a specific persona?

Broad enough for creative freedom?

Narrow enough to be solved by a practical design solution?

Based on your problem statement, does your hypothesis statement establish:

The specific action that your solution should enable the user to do or achieve?

The desired outcome that determines whether your solution was successful in meeting the user’s need?

Key takeaways
Problem statements are an essential first step in the define phase of the design process. Strong problem and hypothesis statements help a design team align on which user problem to focus on, and they give everyone a clear goal. To be competitive for UX design positions, designers must be able to show that they can distill user information into succinct and compelling problems and hypotheses that drive narrowly focused and practical design work.

Have you ever encountered a product or app and thought, “I have to have this!”? That’s not a coincidence! This is the dream for UX designers because we want to create products that provide a clear value for users. 

So, how can you use everything you’ve built so far — empathy maps, personas, user stories, problem statements, and hypothesis statements — to make users think, “I have to have this!”? 

Start by defining your product’s value propositions. Value propositions summarize why a consumer should use a product or service. 

Value proposition example
Check out a product you might recognize - Gmail – and ask yourself if you can identify a few of its value propositions. When Google debuted Gmail in 2004, they were entering an already crowded market of free email services. Gmail offered: 

The ability to send and receive emails for free

Email sorting, archiving, and starring functions

Spam filtering for inboxes

Email conversation views

1 gigabyte of cloud storage

Two of the items on that list were unique offerings that no other email services provided at the time: email conversation views, which put individual emails in the context of a larger thread, and an entire gigabyte of storage, which was 1,000 times the amount of storage that competitors offered. Those were Gmail’s unique value propositions. 

Build value propositions
Everything that your product has to offer might seem obvious to you, but you have to put yourself in the mind of your users. Users don’t know your product or understand its value yet. That’s where value propositions come in. 

To start, you need to do some research in order to answer these two questions:

What does your product do? Clearly explain the offering that your product provides users. 

Why should the user care? Describe how your product addresses users’ pain points.

Once you’ve answered these questions, you can follow a series of steps to focus in on your product’s unique value proposition. Let’s use the dog walker app as an example to explore how this works in action.

Step 1. Describe your product’s features and benefits. Create a list of all the great features and benefits of your product, big and small. Don’t hold back; list everything that comes to mind and then narrow it down later.

a wall covered in sticky notes of various featuresa wall covered in sticky notes of various features. Easy-to-use app design, geo-tracking of walkers, complimentary doorbell cameras, thorough training for walkers, no hidden fees, quick matching with qualified users, calendar blocking, monthly organic goodies and new products for your pets, monthly subscription, background checks, convenient lockers for your house keys, late-notice cancellation fees, rating system, professional referral only, rate negotiation, upgrade dog walkers to dog nanny for set scheduled walks, picture requests from your walker, exclusively for dog walking
Step 2. Explain the value of the product. Anything that you identify as a value proposition needs to be beneficial to your users. In this example, for the dog walker app, there were four categories of product values that were identified during user interviews: accessible, professional experience of the dog walkers, cost, and reliability. The giant list of features and benefits from step one is sorted into those four categories.

A wall with different categories, with features broken down into them
There were a few features and benefits from the original list that didn't fit into these four categories and didn't add real “value” for the users: 

Monthly organic goodies and new products for your pets

Exclusively for dog walking (no other kinds of pets)

Rating system for walkers

Training tips

These features and benefits were not sorted into the four categories and were instead set to the side. 

Step 3. Connect these features and benefits with the needs of your users. The goal is to identify what’s truly valuable to the user and not just a cool feature that users didn’t ask for. To determine value, take the personas you’ve developed and pair each persona with a value proposition that meets their biggest pain point.

A wall with different people's pictures and a sticky note underneath.A wall with different people's pictures and a sticky note underneath.
Tobias: Thorough training for walkers.
Darlene: Late-notice cancellation fees.
Carlos: Upgrade to dog nanny for set, scheduled walks.
Daniela: Convenient lockers for your house keys.
Jessica: Geo-tracking of walkers
Arnold: Easy to use app design
Makayla: Calendar blocking
Step 4. Review your official value proposition list. You’ve narrowed your list down of lots of benefits and features by matching them with actual user needs. Now it’s time to review the list of value propositions your product offers. For the dog walker app, here are the value propositions that matched with the personas that were developed earlier: 

Thorough training for walkers

Upgrade dog walkers to dog nanny for set, scheduled walks

Geo-tracking of walkers 

Calendar booking

Late-notice cancellation fees

Convenient lockers that hold your house keys 

Easy-to-use app design 

And there you have it, your list of value propositions! However, some of these features and benefits are also offered by your competitors. So how do you know what makes your product stand out from the competition? Identify your app’s unique value proposition. This means reviewing the list of value propositions that match to your personas and removing those that your competition also offers. 

One way to check out your product’s competitors is to read reviews. Sort the reviews from lowest to highest, and closely examine what reviewers are sharing about your competition. Here are some reviews about a competitor dog walking app:

icon of a phone; at the top of the screen it reads "competitor" and underneath are several reviews with 1-2 star ratings. 
Can you identify the biggest pain point in this example? A common theme in some of the reviews is the need for thorough, in-person training for the dog walkers, to ensure that the dog walkers know how to do their jobs well. Some of the reviews also call out the need for dog walkers to be reliable. No other dog walking app is meeting this need, so that’s the unique value proposition our app can provide!

Key takeaways
One of the most important things to know about value propositions is that they need to be short, clear, and to the point. Users want to be able to easily identify exactly how your product will meet their unique needs and what sets your product apart in the market. Sometimes users won’t know what they need until you explain it to them. That’s the real heart of product design innovation.

Terms and definitions for Course 2, Module 3

Call-to-action (CTA): A visual prompt that tells the user to take action

Feedback loops: The outcome a user gets at the end of a process

Hypothesis statement: Our best educated guess on what we think the solution to a design problem might be 

Mental models: Internal maps that allow humans to predict how something will work

Problem statement: A clear description of the user's needs that should be addressed

Serial position effect: When given a list of items, people are more likely to remember the first few and the last few, while the items in the middle tend to blur

The human factor: Describes the range of variables humans bring to their product interactions

Value proposition: The reason why a consumer should use a product or service

