Hi again. Earlier we introduced the concept
of the human factor. Now, let's learn about other psychological phenomena
that can impact UX design. Sometimes the human
factor isn't as simple as lacking concentration
or needing motivation. Human beings can be
pretty complicated. We're always making associations between what we think
and what we see. For example, humans usually prefer the color red
over the color blue. Why? A 2005 study of the Olympic Games
might give us a clue. For one-on-one combat
style competitions like wrestling or boxing, Olympic rules randomly
give one athlete a blue uniform and the
other one a red uniform. Researchers discovered
that Olympians in red won a statistically higher portion of their matches
than those in blue. The study attributed
these findings to the human tendency to associate the color red with
dominance and aggression. Because of that association, the athletes wearing
red were thought to be in a better
mindset for a fight. Turns out, the right outfit really can make all
the difference. But it's not just
color preferences that make humans so complex. Every day, whether
we know it or not, we experience examples of
psychological phenomena. Let's check out some that can be especially useful
to UX designers. The first psychological
phenomena, Von Restorff effect
or isolation effect, states that when multiple
similar objects are present, the one that differs from the rest is most likely
to be remembered. Think back to the childhood
games you used to play. Remember those
spot-the-difference puzzles? The puzzles were
made up of images. Maybe there'd be a
picture of three cows. The first two cows are white with black spots and look like
pretty generic cows. They fit a young child's
definition of what a cow is. But cow number three
doesn't have any spots. The Von Restorff effect tells us that the cow without spots, the unique cow, will be
the one we remember. In UX design, this is why
the call-to-action buttons look different from the rest of the buttons
on a site or app; because we want
them to stand out. In case you're not
familiar, a call-to-action, or CTA, is a visual prompt that tells the user
to take action. For example, the Start button on Google Maps is bright blue
on a white background, which makes it stand out. The second psychological
phenomena, serial position effect, says that when people are
given a list of items, they are more likely to remember the first few and the last few, while the items in the
middle tend to blur. This is why most applications
and websites position the most important user
actions toward the far right or far left of
a top navigation bar. The third psychological
phenomena, Hick's law, states that the more
options a user has, the longer it takes for
them to make a decision. We can experience
Hick's law in action in the potato chip aisle
of any grocery store, Rows and rows of
different potato chips. Even if you narrow your
choice to one brand, you still have to decide between ridge chips or
kettle-cooked chips, sour cream and onion-flavored, or barbecue-flavored, and so on. The options are endless and so is the
decision-making process. In other words, if the
number of choices increases, the time to make a decision
increases in proportion. As a UXer, you might
think that giving your user a lot of choices
enhances their experience. But Hick's law tells us we may be making their decisions harder. It's important for
UX designers to use these different
psychological principles in an ethical way. You don't want to
exploit the user. You only want to encourage them. You don't want to
overpower the user. You want to empower them. With a little
psychology, creativity, and empathy, what starts as a limitation can end
up as a benefit. Coming up next, we'll move into the ideation phase of the
design process. See you there.