Welcome to psychology in design. After all our discussions about empathy
and understanding the user, you're probably not surprised to learn that
psychology is a big deal in UX design. Nearly everything is
designed to fit humans, from pants pockets to electric cars. But that wasn't always the case. Believe it or not,
it took two world wars for designers to consider what we
now call the human factor. The human factor describes the
range of variables humans bring to their product interactions. Before World War I, the objective
was to fit the human to the machine. When planes started being used in war,
that changed. Suddenly, untrained soldiers
had to learn how to fly. Aviation psychology was introduced, and an attempt was made to mold
the machine to fit the human. Unfortunately, in the early 1900s, the
technology just wasn't good enough yet. During World War II, the sheer
number of men and women needed for the war effort made it impossible to
choose specific people for specific tasks. Aviation design had to
consider human factors. In this case, human factors were
the pilots' varying skill levels. If we were robots, some computer genius
could just program us to be expert fliers. But we're only human, and not everyone
flying a warplane was an ace pilot. To account for this human factor,
we had to adapt the plane to the pilot. And by World War II,
we finally had the tech to do it. So, what are some of the human
factors that inform design? Here's a few of the most common ones: impatience, limited memory,
needing analogies, limited concentration,
changes in need, needing motivation, prejudices, fears,
making errors, and misjudgment. For an example of design that
considers these factors, all you need to do is check your email. The business email shorthand TL;DR
has really caught on in the last couple of years. It's an acronym you might find at
the start of a very long email. A TL;DR is a short, succinct summary
that only gives you the email highlights you really need to know,
without any excess content. So, what does TL;DR stand for? Too long; didn't read. The email writer factors in
the human tendencies of impatience, limited concentration, need for
motivation, and limited memory. Not bad for four little letters. Here are psychological concepts
that can help you design with the human factor in mind. Mental models are internal maps that allow
humans to predict how something will work. When you face a door, your mental model
tells you that the door can be opened. Once the door is opened,
you'll be able to leave the room. The process of opening the door is
expected to end with you being able to leave the room. A mental model breaks when you can't
go through the open door because, for example, there's a solid
brick wall behind it. The next psychological
concept is feedback loops. Feedback loops refer to the outcome
a user gets at the end of a process. For example, if you enter a dark room and
flip a light switch, the room will either brighten,
or it won't. Positive feedback would
be the light coming on. While negative feedback
would be nothing happening. The more positive feedback a user
gets when completing the action, the more they will expect
the outcome to be positive. The same is true with negative feedback. If your user takes an action,
it's important that they get some kind of confirmation that the action worked
or that it didn't. In spite of all the limitations
the human factors puts on UX designers, it also gives us opportunities to
create even better user experiences. Sometimes a well-known brand will
revert their product packaging back to the original design in order to
connect to a user sense of nostalgia. For example, a potato chip company might reissue
its classic bag design from the '80s, or a century-old soda company might create
replicas of bottles they used decades ago. In these cases, the designer uses
nostalgia to connect with users, something they couldn't use
to connect with robots. When UX designers turn
limitations into opportunities, the human factor isn't so
limiting after all. Pretty cool, right? Coming up, we'll go through some of
the psychological principles that act on the user's subconscious as they
interact with the product.