Hi there, you've just spent some time
learning about problem statements and hypothesis statements, and you've created some to connect
to the needs of your users. Now that you've had some time to
think about what your users need, it's important to start thinking about
how your product meets those needs. This is known as a value proposition. A value proposition is the reason why
a consumer should use a product or a service. You can think of this statement as
the reason users will be interested and willing to engage with your product. Value propositions ensure that users
have a reason to use the product that you are creating, as opposed to any
other product currently available. As you think about the value
proposition for your first project, your first step should be to answer
these two important questions. What does your product do? And why should the user care? Once you answer these questions, you can start thinking about all
the amazing things that your app will do. You should avoid thinking about
implementation at this stage, let your imagination run free. Let's take a look at the gym app,
we've been discussing in this course. We know that this gym app needs to
have a list of classes for users and the ability to sign up for those classes. Here are a few other things
that our app could do. Easy access to book private trainers. Reservations for popular machines. Make music requests in the gym. On-demand videos for in-home exercises. Sign up for workout classes. Track workouts on the app
via fitness devices. Now, that you have a list of
possible features for the app, you can sort these
features into a category. Let's go back to our earlier
example with Amal. Amal is an athlete who needs a way
to sign up for workout classes, because the class he wants to
participate in fills up fast. Our main focus right now is helping
users like Amal, plan visits to the gym. Let's take a look at our
list with Amal in mind and cross out those features
that don't fit his needs. That leaves us with the following
value propositions. Easy access to book private trainers,
reservations for popular machines,
sign up for workout classes. And those are our value propositions for
the gym app. Having more categories and users allows you to tailor each value
proposition to the user's needs. We know Amal's main focus is
on booking a workout class. So that would be the value
proposition that speaks to his needs. Let's suppose that Leela is currently
looking for a gym membership. She wants to be in and
out of the gym within an hour, so she can make her daily
visit to see her mother. What appeals to Leela is the ability
to reserve a machine and get the exact workout she
wants on her schedule. For users on a tight schedule, like Leela,
popular machine reservations are crucial. Now that you have a deeper understanding
of how to build value propositions and how they affect users. It's time to start thinking about
the value propositions for your app.