
--- Page 1 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 1 of 18How to Create and Practice Flashcards
Like a Boss
David Handel, MD Follow
Sep 25, 2019 · 20 min read
The most powerful ?ashcards stimulate metacognition.
Okay, you’ve read some articles citing cognitive psychology research about
how memory works. Maybe you even accept that retrieval practice, spacedover time, is the most powerful tandem for building durable long-termrecallability of the concepts and facts that you want to remember. After all,these principles really are backed by science. The “
testing eAect ” is the best
way to train your brain’s recall ability.
There is no easier way to leverage the beneCts of retrieval practice than
with Dashcards. You don’t need a friend or teacher to quiz you. Flashcardsare always available at your beck and call.
But now you want to know 1) What are the best practices for creating the
most e2ective 4ashcards?  and 2) How should I practice them to get the
maximum ROI of my time? Those two questions are the most frequent

--- Page 2 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 2 of 18reasons that users reach out to us in chat support at iDoRecall. We’re going
to address them in-depth right here.
First a bit of housekeeping
Many readers of this article are already iDoRecall (iDR) users and we’ll
point out iDR-speciCc points where appropriate throughout the article. Forinstance, in iDR, we call our spaced-repetition Dashcards recalls . But for the
sake of our more general audience, I’ll refer to recalls as Dashcards exceptwhen addressing some feature or brain-hack that’s speciCc or uniquelyavailable in iDR. I will be using some images from the iDR user interfacehere so when you see the word recalls in the UI, think 4ashcards .
We’ll break this discussion into two parts: How to create stick-to-your-
synapses 4ashcards  and Here’s how to practice 4ashcards for optimal e2ect .
We also will feature a special section about memorizing large lists of items.This is an important topic that deserves in-depth treatment.
I want to make it clear from the start that while there is science behind
many of the “best practices” that follow, several of the tips are born moreout of art and the personal experience of the author (moi), rather thanscience. Lastly, I hope that you will share in the comments section, yourideas for optimizing recalls and practice tactics that have yielded themaximal positive eAects for you.
How to create stick-to-your-synapses 7ashcards
Don’t create a -ashcard for a concept that you don’t yet comprehend.Before we go too deep, you should be aware that 4ashcards are utilized forbuilding easy recall of the things that you’ve already learned . If you read
something that doesn’t make sense to you, and you just can’t yet wrap yourhead around it, go Cnd another source that explains it in a way that deliversthat aha realization. Flashcards are not for learning . You should live by the
maxim “Learn before you memorize!” This is the reason why it’s not a greatidea to go acquire a large set of Dashcards created by someone else.Additionally, many third-party Dashcard collections contain a lot of contenton each Dashcard. Flashcards are not meant to be an alternative format toreplace a textbook. The word 4ash  is there for a reason!
--- Page 3 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 3 of 18Never create a ?ashcard for a concept that you don’t yet understand. Flashcards or for training your
memory. “Learn before you memorize!”
Create your -ashcards while consuming your learning content.  (When I
use the word content, I’m referring to the academic materials that you can
read, watch or listen to.) That way you will know that you have includedeverything that you want to remember in your Dashcard collection. I am ahuge proponent of reading things only once . Rereading is one of the biggest
ineXciencies that cause students to lose precious time and set themselvesback. Don’t reread. Don’t read, make highlights and then reread highlightsover and over. Don’t read and make notes and then read your notes overand over. Don’t create your own summary and then read and reread yoursummary. All of those activities are passive approaches to rememberingwhat you’ve learned. The only active approach is to practice retrieving what
you learn from memory . So here is the blueprint for achieving academic
success: 
Read once and create Dashcards as you work your way through the
material. Capture all of the concepts and facts that you want to ensureyou’ll remember. Once you have processed that piece of learning content,
meaning once you have read it in its entirety and created the necessaryDashcards, mark it as completed. Then use the Dashcards and retrievalpractice as your primary tools for remembering the key concepts and factsforever.
When you create a -ashcard, draft the question and answer from
memory. Even though you have the opportunity to see the source contentwhile you are creating a Dashcard, you should focus all of your attention on
the drafting of the Dashcard . You should use the creation time to practice
memory retrieval as you craft the text in your own words. It’s far more
valuable to use your own words and your personal way of explaining aconcept rather than copy|pasting from the source. (Users of iDR demandedTop highlight

--- Page 4 ---
5/30/20, 5: 38 PM How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 4 of 18that we facilitate easy copying of text from the source Cle and we have with
some regret complied. When you use the iDR highlight tool to create arecall, the highlighted text is scooped up and pasted into the answer Celd ofthe recall. But we strongly recommend that you reword that text into yourown wording and understanding.)
On every -ashcard, ask only one question and whenever possible, only
have one answer. You’re in control and you have the ability to limit theDashcard to asking a single question. You should always exercise thisrestraint.
The most challenging -ashcards are the ones where you have to
retrieve a large collection of items from memory . Sometimes the answer
requires a listing of multiple items. Answers that have a large collection ofitems can be extremely challenging to recall. In a special section below,we’ll discuss tactics for dealing with this often-rigorous burden.
Keep the question concise but make it just long enough to be explicit
and clear. Anyone reading the question should understand what you’reasking, even if they don’t know the answer. Consider your future self to bethat theoretical other person . If the question on your Dashcard is ”Lithium?”
will you always know exactly what is being asked? You might say “Sure, it’smy Dashcard and I know what I’m asking.” But a year from now you mightforget. Maybe the implied question is “What group does lithium belong toon the periodic table?” or maybe it’s something very diAerent. Don’t putyour future self in the position of trying to Cgure out exactly what you wereoriginally asking.
Carefully craft your question to elicit the best and most complete
answer. The question should never contain the answer but its wording
should help you retrieve it from memory. Thoughtfully compose yourquestions to best interrogate your memory. Think like a trial attorney who isexamining a witness.
It’s better for the question to be longer than the answer. In fact, I’ll go
further. The question should typically be longer than the answer becauseyou are not trying to memorize an entire textbook with a single Dashcard.Short answers rule. Don’t worry. Even a short answer usually will trigger alengthier internal discourse with your inner voice. Get granular with eachDashcard! Think of a Dashcard as a custom piece of gym equipment devisedto exercise your recall for a single concept or fact! Complex concepts arebest divided up into a group of individual granular Dashcards.
--- Page 5 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 5 of 18Keep your answers short, simple and speciFc so that you can stimulate
synaptic strengthening . Make the Crst of these three S’s your mantra for
crafting the best answers.
It is far easier to retrieve a memory when you use a combination of
words and images to encode it. Add images to the question or answer to
take advantage of the power of dual coding, The combination of text and
imagery is more powerful than either alone.
Adding imagery to text builds more recallable memories. (iDR UI)
You can use an image as the question . Someone’s face could be the
question with their name as the answer. You can also create a question witha graphic that is missing a label, and then show the fully-labeled graphic asthe answer.

--- Page 6 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 6 of 18The question shows Maslow’s hierarchy of needs pyramid with one item missing. The answer reveals the
missing item. (iDR UI)
Use colors and rich text formatting to make the text more memorable .
Make the Dashcard more interesting and stimulating and it will enhance
recallability. Make liberal use of bold, italics, background/foregroundcolors, and font sizes to make key passages of the text jump out. If you havea lot of text, highlight or bold the key or diXcult-to-remember points.
Use humor, narratives and personal examples to make -ashcards more
interesting . Use humor and real-world funny examples. Personal examples
are especially powerful. 
Humor and storytelling make it a lot easier to
remember just about anything.
Use humor and narrative to make your knowledge more memorable. Adding your personal Ush-tale about
the big one that got away to an ichthyology related ?ashcard can make it very memorable.
Learn to create -ashcards for the most important facts that represent

--- Page 7 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 7 of 18the core material you’ll be expected to know . It’s important to use
discretion and only add to your collection Dashcards for the facts and
concepts that you either need or want to remember. There is an inherentfuture practice “burden” for each Dashcard that you create. So, learn how tocurate your knowledgebase. Create a barrier to entry. Don’t make Dashcardsfor unimportant things.
Create -ashcards for both directions . Some Dashcard apps enable you to
reverse practice Dashcards, showing you the answer (deCnition) Crst and
then showing you the question (term) after you “turn it over.”. The most
common use-case meriting this functionality is for mastering a foreign
language. Here you want to be able to practice seeing the deCnition of theword in your language,(assuming here that your native language is English)e.g. “hello” so that you can retrieve from memory the foreign languageword, e.g. “bonjour”. It’s important in these appropriate scenarios to havecards that function in both directions. (In iDR we don’t oAer thisfunctionality for several reasons but we recommend that you create a recallfor each direction so that the spaced-repetition algorithm can separatelyschedule the next review date of each version based on how well you areperforming with each.)
Use screengrabs liberally. They are wonderful for formulas and easier
to use than LaTeX . Screengrabs are an easy way to enhance questions and
answers, (Here’s another iDR speciCc tip. You can add formulas to the Qand A Celds using a
 LaTeX formula entered from iDR’s rich-text editing
toolbar. But it is far easier to take a screengrab of the desired formula andupload that into the Q or A Celd.)
Break it down into its component parts and test your comprehension .
It can be challenging to memorize long and complex scientiCc equations.
There are some approaches that you can take that are short of full-blownregurgitation and instead assess your understanding. You can create a smallset of Dashcards for an equation that tests your recall of its derivationalsteps or inquires why speciCc components are present. You should test
yourself about the meaning of the symbols in an equation and ensure that
you know the units of measurement. You can ask why something is squared
to test your grasp.
Flashcards shouldn’t be overlooked as a powerful tool for use in all of
the disciplines of the social sciences and humanities . Memorizing
poetry and lyrics leads to a deeper understanding of the piece and can giveyou a starting point for expressing your own views of the human
--- Page 8 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 8 of 18experience. You can present a line or stanza as the question and ask for the
next as the answer. We live in a world of shrinking attention spans and our
minds are becoming limited to the maximum number of characters in atweet. The application of memorization in the arts expands our minds.
Tags are iDR’s superpower for organizing your recalls and library
items. Use tags to organize subjects, topics, and subtopics. 
Tags are much
more powerful than using folders for organizing and Cnding things. So we
don’t even oAer folders. You should add a tag to every relevant recall andlibrary item to identify which of your classes it is related. Use tags withnames like “Biology 101” and “Macroeconomics”. Then you can addadditional tags such as a chapter number, topic or subtopic. This makes iteasy to search for speciCc groups of recalls and manually take them intopractice. iDR enables you to take advantage of the beneCts of 
interleaving
and variation and make your daily scheduled practices more eAective at
building robust recallability. But sometimes, such as the day before a quiz ora major exam, you’ll want to manually search by tag for the relevant recallsand give them an extra practice.
Append a metacognitive question to the end of the answer. Besides
dutifully utilizing spaced retrieval practice, 
skillful application of
metacognition is probably the next most powerful tool that you can use to
perform at an elite academic level. You could characterize this type ofinternal dialogue as a form of quality control and a method for moreactively engaging with the content that you are consuming. It’s good to talkto yourself and during this dialogue check in with how well am I paying
attention?; Am I thinking about where the concepts and facts that I’mencountering Ht within my existing knowledge?;  and a host of other questions
that you should be asking yourself. It’s a good idea to ask a metacognitivequestion in the answer Celd that’s customized for the Dashcard’s context.
You should use the 
answer in your ?ashcards 
as an opportunity to 
exercise some 
metacognition and tie 
the ?ashcard’s nugget of 
knowledge to your 
existing knowledgebase.
--- Page 9 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 9 of 18
Cloze deletion type questions are easily simulated in iDR . This is a very  
popular type of question that goes somethin g like this:
Question: In the year […], Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.
Answer: In the year 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.
Cloze deletion questions are very useful for placing some training-wheels on
a particular memory.
Open-ended questions are more challenging than cloze deletion type
or multiple-choice questions. Challenging your recall ability is what
cognitive psychologists call a desirable diXculty . That’s a good thing.
Further, open-ended questions oAer the advantage that they don’t engender
the risk of being fooled by Duency .
Use -ashcard answers as an opportunity to build associations withother parts of your knowledgebase . You can think of your total collection
of memories and knowledge as an internalized Intranet. 
Memories are
associative and the triggering of recall of one memory causes othermemories to rise into consciousness. We understand the neuroscience ofthis phenomenon. It involves the unit of memory called an  engram. I’ve
discussed it before if you’re curious. The point that I want to make here isthat you can hack your memory by referencing other parts of your existingknowledge in the answer of a Dashcard.
Craft why questions for your -ashcards. Knowing that something
exists or is true is a shallower level of knowledge than understanding
why it is what it is. For example, knowing the answer to what is cancer? is
--- Page 10 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 10 of 18not as profound a level of knowledge as understanding why cancer exists in
nature.
Create multiple -ashcards for the same concept that examine it from
diQerent viewpoints . DiAerent teachers may describe the same
challenging concept from varying perspectives that may give you additionalnuances of understanding. When you are dealing with a complex or veryabstract concept, you should test your recall with a small set of Dashcardsthat elicit varied nuances of the idea. This is a fabulous technique formaintaining a deep understanding of a diXcult-to-grasp concept.
When dealing with an abstract and complex concept, create a small set of ?ashcards that test you from
varying viewpoints and nuances.
If you are going to use -ashcards others have made, curate themcarefully . Students often like to take a shortcut and utilize Dashcards
created by other people. After considerable pressure, iDR began to oAer theability to import Dashcards created on Quizlet and Anki. Some of theproblems associated with using 3rd party Dashcards include violating the“Learn before you memorize!” maxim and potentially addingmisinformation to your knowledgebase. Additionally, you are more likely tocreate a bloated and diXcult-to-manage collection of Dashcards if you starthoarding easy-to-add 3rd-party Dashcards. If you craft all of them byyourself, you’ll be stingier with your collection.

--- Page 11 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 11 of 18
How to memorize large collections of items
Okay, let’s deal with the seemingly unavoidable scenario, Dashcard answers
that consist of a large collection of items that you’ll be required to retrievefrom memory. Having a long list as the answer is a setup for being fooled byDuency. You know the scenario. You read the question and try to think ofthe list of items in the answer. Then you turn it over and look at the list.You’ve successfully recalled 4 items on the list and you look at the other 2and tell yourself “yep, I knew those too.” This phenomenon occurs becauseyou recognized those items. You’ve seen them before and you areexperiencing what cognitive psychologists call “Duency” with them. Butbeing Duent is not the same as being capable of actively retrieving themfrom memory.
So, how do you mitigate this situation? The Crst thing to realize is that that
it is more challenging to memorize a list that is a set than if it’s anenumeration. A set is a collection of well-deCned unique items that canoccur in any order. An example would be a set of stone fruits that containsthe entries “peach, plum, nectarine, apricot, and cherry” It doesn’t matterin what sequence that you answer this list so long as you remember eachitem. On the contrary, an enumeration is a collection where the order of theanswer does matter. An example would be where you are asked to providethe Crst ten digits of Pi. The order of the 10 digits matters. (BTW, the worldrecord for memorizing the digits of Pi is 70,000!).
If you are dealing with a challenging long set of answers, try to break it
down into manageable chunks. In other words, create Dashcards withquestions whose answer is a subset of the complete set you need tomemorize. Then create a small group of Dashcards with answers whosesubset’s cover the entire set. For example, using the set of stone fruits:
Q: Can you name two stone fruits that are very close genetic relatives with
the biggest diAerence that one has a gene for fuzz and the other doesn’t?
A: Peaches and nectarines.Q: Name two stone fruits that are hardier in the garden than peaches,
nectarines, and apricots.
A: Cherries and plums.
and so forth.
--- Page 12 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 12 of 18
Breaking down enumerations with cloze deletion type questions that reveal
a portion of the sequence while asking for an intervening member is apopular approach. For example, using the 10 digits of Pi:
Q: The Crst 10 digits of Pi beginning to the right of the decimal place are3.1415_26535
A: 3.14159 26535
You can also add imagery to the answers of ?ashcards containing long sets and enumerations to help make
them more memorable.
If you have to deal with a long-list answer that you Fnd too
challenging, it’s time to whip out your toolbox of mnemonic devices.
These are a bag of tricks for giving your memory an assist.
One of the most common of these tools is the acronym . For instance, the
order of precedence in math operators and coding is:
Parentheses, E xponents, M ultiply, D ivide, A dd, and S ubtract = PEMDAS.
Rhymes are a wonderful tool for memorizing enumerations. For example,
to remember the rules for the ordering of “E” and “I” in words:
I before E, except after C

--- Page 13 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 13 of 18
Or when sounded like “A ” as in neighbor, weigh and weight
Or when sounded like “eye ” as in height
And “weird” is just weird
Other mnemonic devices include “name mnemonics” such as the classic
ROY G. BIV  for colors of the spectrum: R ed, O range, Yellow, G reen, Blue,
Indigo, V iolet.
Another variety is the “word or phrase mnemonic”. An example is the use ofthe word mnemonic  SCALP to memorize the layers of the scalp: S kin, dense
Connective tissue, epicranial A poneurosis, L oose areolar connective tissue,
and P eriosteum. There are several 
other categories  of mnemonic devices.
One more mnemonic device that deserves special mention is the memory
palace also known as the method of loci. It’s especially helpful for
memorizing enumerations since they require a sequential order. Here youpicture yourself walking through a real or imaginary location. I like “takinga walk” into my house and then proceeding through the rooms in aparticular order. I then picture the diAerent items in the list placed in eachlocation along the way. It helps to use elaboration, often with humorousand even ridiculous imagery to make each mental image more memorable.An example would be imagining the enumeration item plopped in yourbathtub and the tub is full of Rocky Road ice cream. We have atremendously powerful capacity for spatial memory that helps make thistechnique very eAective.
Here’s how to practice 7ashcards for optimal e=ect
Never ever ever turn over a -ashcard until you have made a solid eQortto retrieve the answer from memory. This is rule #1! It’s called retrieval
practice for a reason. Always make your best eAort to recall the answer. Ifyou are unsuccessful, consciously admit that you don’t recall and only thenturn the Dashcard over. 
Even a failed attempt at retrieval will help make the
answer more recallable next time. But if you simply turn over the Dashcardand recognize the answer, you will deceive yourself into believing that youknew the answer and will have accomplished zip.
--- Page 14 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 14 of 18Always conjure up the answer or admit to yourself “I don’t recall” before you turn over a ?ashcard!
Use tags for each of your courses and additional tags for diQerent 
topics within a subject. Practice diAerent sections of your course together  
if you like. Then study the whole subjec t allowing interleaving to enhance  
the power of your prac tices.
Take advantage of the spaced-repetition algorithm in iDoRecall but 
also manually study your recalls. E very day, t he PRACTICE tab will  
contain a queue of recalls that the algori thm has determined you are close  
to forgetting. Practice this set of recalls daily and keep on top of the work. 
Generally, it will only take a few mi nutes  to maintain a large body of  
knowledge. Older recalls in your collec tion will typically appear in your  
daily practice only a few times a year. Remember t hat you can and should  
utilize the option of manually taking selected sets of recalls into practice. If  
it’s the day before a big exam, and you’ve been tagging your recalls by their 
related course, you can search for the course’s recalls and go through  
retrieval practice with them one more time. You can also sort your recall  
collection by Grade (the average star rating you’ve been giving them during 
practice) and take the ones that you are struggli ng with the most into an  
extra retrieval practice.
When you’re on-the-go on, perform retrieval practices on your phone. 
iDR also works on mobile device browsers (n o app is needed). While the  
small screen may be suboptimal for reading l ong PDFs and creating linked  
recalls, performing your retrieval practice sessions on a phon e is a breeze.  
Doing a retrieval practice while you’re out-and-about not only may take 
advantage of some free moments in your day, retri eval practice in diAerent  
contexts helps build new associations that  make those memories even more

--- Page 15 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 15 of 18easily retrievable in the future.
Respond out loud. It’s good to talk to yourself and promotes
metacognition. Read the question and answer out loud when performingyour retrieval practice. Metacognition, “thinking about your thinking”engages you deeper in the learning process and having an out-loudconversation when you read the question and review the answer is aworthwhile habit.
Use the R Feld in iDR’s PRACTICE mode. R stands for your response
before you “turn over” the recall . It’s optional but typing in the answer
helps establish a deeper connection in your memory. Even if you are wrong
and see the correct answer moments later, it will make you think moredeeply.
Use the optional R Ueld in the iDR UI to type in your response before you turn over the recall. (iDR UI)
Edit cards during practice to Fx errors, add newer learnings andhighlight areas where you are struggling . With iDR, we make it easy to
edit recalls while in the Dow of retrieval practice. Use red to highlight a partof the answer where you are particularly struggling. Or even add a note toyourself for the next time you practice. That way you can add a bit ofcontext and metacognition to your practice sessions.
If you struggle with an answer, refresh your memory by going back to
the source content . With iDR, you can create your recalls as you consume
your learning materials in the app. This gives you the opportunity to refresh
your memory during retrieval practice. There is a source link on the back of
these recalls that if clicked, will open the relevant Cle or video in yourlibrary at the exact spot where you created the recall. For you purists, truth

--- Page 16 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 16 of 18be told, videos are reopened 10 seconds before the exact location in the
timecode where you created the recall so that you can get your bearings asyou begin to watch the relevant segment of the video.
In iDR, when you “turn over” a recall during retrieval practice, if you struggled with the answer, you can click
the source link (inside the red-dashed box above) and the source learning Ule in your library will open at the
exact location where you created the recall. (see the next image)
After you click the source link, the source learning Ule in your library will open at the exact location where
you created the recall. If the source is a video, the video will open 10-seconds before the relevant timecode
when you created the recall.
Study at diQerent times of the day and at multiple locations to createvariation and new contexts that result in additional pathways in yourbrain to the answer. It’s very popular to have a special study location andfavorite time of day to do your learning. But it’s actually beneCcial tobuilding robust recallability if you 
add variety to the places and times of day
that you perform your retrieval practice. Every time you retrieve a memory,

--- Page 17 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 17 of 18it is altered and the context of where you are and what’s happening around
you can add new associations that create new pathways for retrieving that
nugget of knowledge from memory. Remember the classic neurosciencemaxim “neurons that Cre together wire together.” So go create some newpatterns of wiring.
Practice just before you sleep and take advantage of sleep’s memory
consolidation powers. The process of creating long-term memories iscomplicated but it is dependent on a process called consolidation. The timewhen your mind is “onine” such as when you relax, take a walk and
especially while you sleep are critical in this process. Some believe that
learning something new just before you sleep can make that new
knowledge more likely to undergo consolidation. While I’m not convincedto the point that I’d move all of my retrieval practice to bedtime, I do someof my practice at bedtime. I make certain that I am alert when I do this.
Break your practice sessions up into several pieces to make them less
tedious . You may have 50 or 75 Dashcards to practice some days. They
generally take me less than 30 seconds apiece. But it’s good to break upyour practice sessions into bite-sized chunks so that you remain maximallyengaged during each session.
Key takeaways
All students struggle from to one degree to another with recalling academicmaterial from memory. There probably is no such thing as a “photographicmemory” and 
very few public Cgures  have even made the claim.
Using Dashcards for retrieval practice, spaced over time, it the single mostpowerful tactic that you can employ to remember everything that you learn.
We presented here a series of what we consider the best practices for the
creation and practice of Dashcards. We’re not aware of any single authority
on this subject and we invite you to add your tips to our list in thecomments. Let’s build this list together!
--- Page 18 ---
How to Create and Practice Flashcards Like a Boss - David Handel, MD - Medium
Page 18 of 18Metacognition, so-called “thinking about your thinking”, is how elite students actively engage with and
quality-control their learning experiences.
A second critical activity regularly used by elite students is metacognition.
Commonly described as “thinking about your thinking”, metacognition alsoinvolves the self-regulation of your cognition, for example, recognizing adeCciency and then taking the necessary steps to correct it. While we all dothis to some degree, passive learners use it much less often. 
I’ve written
about this elsewhere but I want to stress how important an opportunity theapplication of solid metacognition practices is for advancing your learningskills. You can use the answer portion of your Dashcards to stimulate somemetacognitive behavior.
You might also enjoy reading 
How to Unlock the Amazing Power of Your
Brain and Become a Top Student.Now please share with us your best practices for creating and using
Dashcards!
Learning Flashcards Students Education Spaced Repetition
