How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 1 of 13How To Read Academic Content Once
and Remember it Forever
Metacognition and spaced retrieval: science-backed learning
techniques that work
David Handel, MD Follow
Aug 29, 2019 · 15 min read
Photo by congerdesign via Pixabay
All of your conceptual knowledge and autobiographical memory is a
collection of stories. They’re all connected, like the many URLs thattogether make up the worldwide web. Like the web, if a “page” in yourknowledge and memory “intranet” has no other pages linked to it, then youwill no longer be able to retrieve this orphan, and it ceases to be knowledge.
Your conceptual knowledge is part of a narrative by your inner voice. As you
come across new opportunities to learn, you play with the new conceptsand facts and talk about them with yourself using that inner voice.Subconsciously, you link them to the things that you already know, the
stories you’ve already internalized.
I want to teach you how to deliberately hold this inner dialogue with

How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 2 of 13yourself and do this in a manner that will make you a powerful learner by
more intentionally linking your memory and knowledge together throughnarrative. This skill, when applied with conscious awareness, is calledmetacognition, thinking about your thinking . And more than simply
thinking about your thinking, you must exercise self-control and makechoices in how you regulate your cognition and learning. (Figure 1)
Figure 1. Metacognition is the superpower that enables high-caliber learners to read deeply, extract the key
concepts and facts from the content, and convert these learnings into new knowledge. All illustrations are
courtesy of iDoRecall.com.
Why I Had to Develop These Techniques for Myself
I’m the kind of person who isn’t great at connecting names and faces.
Occasionally, I’ll walk into a room and forget why I was headed there.
More than a few times in my life I have struggled to Nnd my way back to my
car in a large mall parking lot.
And I’m certainly no memory athlete like the ones who compete and

How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 3 of 13accomplish seemingly superhuman feats.
I’m also no genius. My sense is that I’m deNnitely in the top quartile of the
population. I’m likely somewhere within the top decile. But I doubt I’m inthe top percentile. There are many people in my life who I’m certain are farmore intelligent than me.
I was a mediocre K-12 student. I graduated near the 50th percentile of my
high school class. But after initially struggling in college, I redesigned myentire approach to learning by incorporating a set of practices we now know
are backed by cognitive science. After making those changes, I earned
straight A’s the remainder of my college career. I matriculated into medicalschool and four years later, I graduated No. 1 in my class. In fact, I had thetop score in my class of about 200 on every single medical school exam .
I’ve 
previously written about how I transformed my ability to learn. In that
article, I discussed the importance of re;ection , but I barely delved into how
I trained myself to think about my thinking when I read non-Nction and
academic content. This process, termed metacognition, has superchargedmy ability to learn.
I am going to teach you how to read your learning materials and watch
educational videos with the mission to consume the content once and
remember it forever . I will use something called spaced repetition here
and there to help you remember what you learn. (What do I mean when I
say spaced repetition? We’ll get to the answer soon.)
Before I dive in deeper, a bit of housekeeping. I am going to use the word
consume here as a shorthand to indicate reading, watching, or listening,depending on the delivery method of the learning content that you areworking with at the moment, whether it’s written material, images, video,audio, or some other medium. I may refer to these media collectively aslearning materials, academic content, or some similar variation.
I’d like to focus your attention on a critical set of skills that will enable you
to consume all of your academic content once and prepare your mind to
remember it forever. By following these steps, you’ll be capable of readingyour class notes, handouts, academic papers, and textbooks just once,harvesting all the knowledge and insight they have to oYer. Then I willteach you how to install what you’ve learned into your everyday thinking,remembering all the facts and concepts. Forever.
How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 4 of 13...
An Introduction to Knowledge Acquisition and
Knowledge Maintenance
You must employ two distinct science-backed steps:
The Nrst step is the knowledge-acquisition phase, which is powered by
metacognition. Here you’ll consume learning materials in a new way
that will enable you to not only store them in memory but retrieve themat will, which leads to…
The second step, which is a perpetual knowledge-maintenance plan basedon practicing accessing what you’ve learned and spacing out thesepractices over time. (Yes, this is what we mean by spaced repetition!Figure 2.)
Leverage these tactics, and you’ll not only be a star pupil, but you’llremember what you learn forever.
Figure 2. It is natural that we forget recently learned material. By practicing retrieval of a memory, spaced

How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 5 of 13over time, we can make that memory easily retrievable.
Your primary objective when approaching your learning materials is to
extract all of the important concepts and facts. You’ll need to process thatinformation in very speciNc ways in order to create an infrastructure ofknowledge that will provide the foundation for later higher-order thinkingprocesses.
Think of it this way: What you learn and commit to memory forms a
foundation on which to build more complicated thinking and analysis.You’ll be able to take what you’ve learned and play with it, build on it, applyit, evaluate it, and create with it. And if you’re anything like me, you’ll
derive tremendous satisfaction from using all that you’ve learned, from
across numerous knowledge domains, to create mashups that deliver newinventions and ideas to the world.
...
How To Process and Extract the Pearls in Your
Learning Materials
When I consume my learning materials, I mentally process that content
with the intention of never coming back to re-read, re-watch, or re-listen toit.
One of the biggest ine^ciencies, endemic among students as they study, is
the consumption and re-consumption of their learning materials. Studentshighlight what they perceive to be important concepts, then repeatedly re-read the highlights. They’ll listen to a lecture, then listen again. They’llwatch a video over and over again, hoping that the knowledge containedthere will stick. Because students generally approach reading as a passive
activity, only a small amount of the content is transferred from the page to
their brain. Passive re-reading accomplishes little more than was achievedduring the Nrst pass, and it takes just as long. Highlighting text andpassively re-reading the highlights 
adds very little to a student’s knowledge.
If you are on a serious mission to learn, then you must become skilled atextracting knowledge from the content and grafting it into your mind. Thisis a very active and deliberate process — not the passive consumption andre-consumption of learning materials.
The knowledge contained in a piece of academic content invariably
How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 6 of 13includes facts relevant to that subject domain. These facts are the most
granular and atomic elements of any body of knowledge — the buildingblocks that form the foundation of greater and more complex scholarship.For your purposes, not all of the factual information may be worthcommitting to memory. As you read, you need to make educated judgmentsabout which facts need to be harvested and retained and which only addcolor commentary to the story.
When you consume academic content, your mission is to parse,
comprehend, and extract. Even the densest academic writing contains some
chaY. When you read to learn, you need to process the material and distill it
down to the core substance. You’re looking for the relevant information thatyou wish to take with you. Then you need to install the new knowledge inyour thought processes so that you can make real use of it.
This is an almost military exercise. At times it may not be a joyride. It takes
eYort. It’s far more rigorous than the passive and ineYective way moststudents read. You are working your way through the material in search ofthe important facts, central themes, concepts, and procedural knowledgethat you will determine to be worthy of your focus, cognitive load,comprehension, and committing to memory.
Generally, the concepts in your learning materials require you to expend the
greatest metacognitive eYort. Concepts are abstractions that often helporganize facts and ideas into a system of understanding. Conceptualknowledge can be di^cult to comprehend and “wrap your head around” ona Nrst pass.
In an optimal circumstance, you will Nnish reading a piece of content and
then never need to return to it. But you may Nnd yourself re-reading a
sentence, paragraph, or section of the content during your ?rst-and-onlyreading  as you struggle to parse and understand it.
This can sometimes be an arduous exercise. It’s also one of the many timesthat you will apply metacognition as you deconstruct and reconstruct aconcept. You will need to create a mental representation of something thatmight be concrete and real-world or is perhaps something more abstractthat is only a concept or idea. This internal representation or mental model(Figure 3) is how you will think about, intellectually manipulate, and playwith the concept. This process is “wrapping your head around it,” as youmentally digest the new idea and deliberately attach it to other knowledgethat you already possess. This is where you are most actively learning asBetter Humans
Better Humans is a
collection of theworld's most…
Follow
6.4K
How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 7 of 13you read.
Figure 3. Mental models enable us to organize our understanding of a real-world entity or even an abstract
concept so that we can intellectually examine, analyze, and manipulate it.
As you parse the words, phrases, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and
illustrations of the learning content, you should identify and record everyfact that you want to remember. (I’ll say more in a moment about how torecord what you want to remember.) You will encounter all the conceptspresented in the piece. With each concept, you need to perform an internalquality assessment to determine if you have full comprehension. This is animportant part of the metacognitive process. This thinking about yourthinking  is how you actively assess the status of your comprehension.
Rather than recording ineYectual notes as I read, I do something far morepowerful: I leverage technology to 
create spaced-repetition eashcards
linked to the concepts and facts in my learning materials. Then, on retrievalpractice, if I struggle with an answer, I can click a link that will open thesource learning content at the exact spot relevant to the eashcard. I canrefresh my memory and quickly get back to my retrieval practice session.[Note from the editors of Better Humans: IDoRecall.com is a ;ashcard product

How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 8 of 13sold by the author of this article. While we do not allow product pitches in
Better Humans articles, there are examples, like this, where the author has
created a relevant product out of their own experience—one that would be oddto not mention at all.]
Thinking about the material you are reading and reeecting on how you are
mentally processing the material requires some context switching. Readand think about the content. Then think about how you are processing thecontent. As you are learning to perform this switching, you will experiencea potentially taxing cognitive load, especially until metacognition becomes
a habit. Don’t be discouraged — it will get easier. Metacognition is
something that 
can be taught and learned.
When you consume your learning sources, you will encounter thepresentation of concepts that are sometimes obtuse and not explained in amanner that you can grasp. The best approach when you have thisexperience is to Nnd another source for learning that concept. Rather thanwrestling with one author’s approach to delivering that speciNc knowledge,you should seek the teaching of other experts. This is easy to accomplishthanks to the web and Google. In fact, one of the most powerful strategiesthat I employed in college and medical school was to routinely readmultiple sources on the same subject. I had the time to do that because I
was not wasting time rereading my required content.
A guided example of using metacognition
So, what does metacognition look like? Let me take you for a ride along
with my mind as I consume learning content.
When I consume learning content, I am thinking about the content, but I
am also thinking about whether my attention has lapsed and assessing howwell I am processing the facts and concepts that I am encountering. I gothrough cycles of parsing and identifying the what . What are the important
facts? What are the salient concepts? What do I understand? What don’t Icomprehend?
Then I switch gears and dive deeper, identifying where the important
knowledge I want to take with me Nts within my pre-existing knowledge. Iask myself the answer to questions such as:
How would I brieey summarize this? What are the key concepts?
Does this remind me of anything that I already know in this domain ofknowledge?Top highlight
How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 9 of 13Does this remind me of anything in another unrelated domain of
knowledge?
What other things do I know that support the veracity of this concept?
Can I think of anything else I know that contradicts this concept?
Do I know any concrete or practical examples that illustrate orilluminate this concept?
How challenging is it for me to comprehend this?
If this is a WHAT, can I explain the WHY? (or vice versa, as applicable)
Why is this so important to know?
Do I Nnd this interesting? Why is that the case, or why not?
Do I Nnd this surprising? Why is that or why is that not the case?
How can I apply this in the real world?
That is a quick peek at a short list of generic questions that I use in myinternal dialogue. I have scores of these questions that I use to interrogatemy learning as I consume content. Even more important are the custom-tailored questions that I improvise as I read.
This 
metacognitive approach to learning is a very active way to interact
with the content. Sure, my “read only once” approach takes longer than a
single passive reading. But the learning is much deeper. Facts and conceptsare placed into mental models and associated with my prior knowledge ofthe subject domain at hand and even with other seemingly unrelateddomains.
But, as fantastic as this technique is, this style of consuming content is not
su^cient for the perpetual recall of what I’ve learned.
...
Remembering What You Learn Forever
How can you remember what you learn forever? Forgetting is the normalM.O. of the human mind. This was proven by the 
experiments performed by
Ebbinghaus more than a century ago. The only way to deliberately maintain
your ability to recall the speciNc knowledge you want to remember is topurposely maintain your memories through retrieval practice .
If this term is new to you, we’re talking about testing your memory for each
How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 10 of 13individual concept and fact. Retrieval practice can be carried out by using
eashcards. This is especially handy since you can do it on your own, any
time that you desire. Practice can also be achieved by studying with friendsor in school when your teacher tests you during classroom discussions,quizzes, or exams. I’m many years beyond my formal academic phase of life,but as a lifelong learner, eashcards are my go-to for the things that I want toremember forever.
The beneNts of retrieval practice and what has come to be known as the
testing eLect  have been 
proven hundreds of times in cognitive psychology
research. I like to think of this retrieval practice as taking my brain to the
gym and hopping on a piece of equipment that has been speciNcallydesigned to maintain my recall for a particular concept or fact. Eacheashcard is a very custom piece of equipment or exercise in my mentalgymnasium. (Figure 4)
Figure 4. Retrieval practice is like taking your brain to the gym and using a speciTc piece of equipment to
build robust recall ability of that speciTc concept, fact, or memory.
Warning: Flashcards are a powerful tool for strengthening recall ability,but they should not be used for learning something in the :rst place!

How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 11 of 13Actively consume and comprehend the material Nrst. Record the key
concepts and facts that you want to remember by creating spaced-repetition
eashcards. Then test and build your recall ability of what you’ve learned
with eashcards!
Figure 5. Close your eyes for a minute and think about PIZZA. Let your mind go. What were the various
thoughts and memories that were triggered? Each of our memories is associated with other memories
because of the way that engrams overlap.
Why is retrieval practice so powerful, and how can you make it even
more eJective?
We know that every time you retrieve a memory, you change the memory
and also strengthen your ability to recall it. Based on current research, weknow that memories are stored at the level of a grouping of synapsesbelonging to a collection of neurons. This group of neurons is called an
engram. The typical neuron has thousands of synapses, and undoubtedlyevery neuron that participates in one engram storing a speciNc memory alsoparticipates in many other engrams storing other memories. This explainswhy memories are so associative and why when we recall one memory, wequickly have other memories pop into consciousness in what seems to be aspontaneous cascade.

How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 12 of 13If I ask you to think of pizza (Figure  5), no doubt a thread of related and
sometimes seemingly unrelated thoughts will arise. For instance, your Nrst
thought of pizza might trigger a memory of your Nrst date with your spousewhen you went to a pizzeria. That thought might lead to remembering thatthis morning your dear spouse asked you to come home early from worktoday. Then you might recall that you are annoyed about having to go tothat dinner obligation that you’re rushing home to attend. This is how theInternet of our brain works.
We are blessed with a nearly 
unlimited storage capacity for memories, but
where we struggle is in retrieving them when we need them. That is what
forgetting  and the tip of the tongue experience is all about.
When we practice retrieval, we strengthen our ability to recall that memory.This is because we strengthen the synaptic connections of the memory’sengram. But we also create new associations each time we retrieve amemory as we link that memory to the circumstances and context we’re ineach time we retrieve it. The cognitive science and neuroscience maxim
neurons that ?re together wire together  is a truism and is embodied in the
power of deliberate retrieval practice. Each time you practice retrieval of afact or concept, you make it easier to retrieve again in the future.
But is it scalable to practice retrieval of every academic fact and
concept that you’d like to keep at your Mngertips?
Imagine that you have a collection of 20,000 eashcards of the academic
concepts and facts you want to be able to easily recall. What do you dowhen you wake up each morning? Practice retrieval of all 20,000?
This is where spaced repetition, AKA spacing, comes in. Spacing permits
you to practice only the small subset of your collection that you are mostlikely close to forgetting. With a good spacing algorithm that selects andschedules your daily practice, we’re probably talking about 
reviewing less
than 100 cards a day out of the 20,000  that have been in your collection for
at least a month. (Newer eashcards generally need more frequent practice
during their Nrst month.) Spacing algorithms typically take into accountyour rating of how easily you were able to recall the correct answer theprevious time that you practiced the eashcard and the length of time sinceyou last practiced it.
Besides making it scalable to manage a large collection of eashcards, the
other big advantage of spacing is that you should optimally practiceretrieval when you are 
close to forgetting an answer, but not quite crossed
How To Read Academic Content Once and Remember it Forever
Page 13 of 13over to complete forgetting. The more eYort it takes to retrieve an answer,
the stronger the eYect of building your ability to recall that concept or fact
in the future.
...
Key Takeaways
If you want to be a highly e^cient and powerful learner, you don’t have tobe a memory athlete or a genius. You can even be an absentmindedprofessor in other aspects of your life. There is no skill that you can masterthat is more valuable than the ability to consume academic content with aninquiring mind by utilizing metacognition. By thinking about your mindfulinteraction with the content and having an internal dialogue as you processit, you can identify the important parts, QA your level of attention andcomprehension, and carefully consider where these new learnings Nt withinthe universe of what you already know.
As you build your knowledge base, make it your habit and practice to
capture your learnings in spaced-repetition eashcards as you consume your
learning materials. Then, every day, practice retrieval of that small subset ofthe cards you are close to forgetting. You will discover that you canmaintain, on an ongoing basis, all the learnings that you want to remember.Forever.
What I propose here is based upon well-known cognitive science principles
and also on 
my own personal success . I was a mediocre K-12 student who
made a miraculous transformation and ended up graduating No. 1 in mymedical school class.
Learning Education Cognitive Science Neuroscience Reading
